Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you an action, adventure,
sci-fi film from 2016, titled The 5th Wave.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
A girl is seen walking toward a store with
a riffle.
Cassie enters the emptied and destroyed market
and grabs everything she can find when she
hears someone ask for help.
The girl goes in the back to check.
As she enters the room a man points a gun
at her.
Both of them want the other to drop their
weapon.
He does it first then asks her to do it as
well.
She tells him to move his other hand, hidden
under his jacket.
The man tells her that he's wounded.
When moves his hand, the girl sees something
and thinking it might be a weapon, she shoots
him.
He had a crucifix in his hand.
In a flashback, we see her at a party with
her friends.
She and her friend talk about her crush.
As Cassie exits the party, she sees Ben, her
crush.
They have a brief exchange.
Cassie gets home and checks in with her dad
Oliver and says goodnight to her brother Sam.
The next day, Cassie has soccer practice.
Her friend wants to show her something strange
on her phone, but they get interrupted by
their teacher.
All of a sudden, Cassie notices everyone else
is on their phone because something major
is happening.
Later, Cassie's family watches the news report
about a mysterious UFO.
Sam runs out of the house and the rest follow
him only to be struck by the image of the
UFO in the sky above them.
During the first 10 days, the aliens made
no attempt at communicating.
People from Cassie's neighborhood begin to
move away from the cities which is noticeable
the next day at her school.
Suddenly, all kinds of devices stop working.
The kids in the class hear a crash outside
and they see a pile up on the road in front
of the school.
An airplane is also seen falling from the
sky, crashing near the school, and destroying
some of the cars.
This was a reaction to the electromagnetic
pulse that the aliens had activated - the
1st wave meant to kill all the power.
Later, Cassie's dad picks her up from school.
She looks at Ben and thinks it will be the
last time she'd see him.
Flash forward some time, Cassie and Sam are
getting water, when the 2nd wave hits like
an earthquake.
They run away from the falling trees when
a giant wave appears behind them.
Cassie manages to get Sam and herself to safety,
climbing up on a nearby tree.
They were the lucky ones, unlike the cities
close to the ocean.
Tsunamis had hit all the coastal cities and
every island, completely destroying them.
After the 2nd wave, the 3rd one was a modified
avian flu that the aliens had sent back to
the planet, decimating the human population.
Cassie arrives at her school which was made
into an additional medical facility.
She sees her friend there and goes to greet
her, but Cassie's mom appears and tells her
that her friend is quarantined.
She puts a mask on her and makes her go home.
Later, Cassie and the rest of her family have
a funeral for her mom that died from the flu.
After some time, Cassie is packing essential
things and getting ready to leave.
She ties Sam's shoes as their dad packs the
last of the stuff they'll need.
The three of them leave the house and begin
the trek toward a refugee camp.
They get there before nightfall and are greeted
by one of the main people in the camp.
That night, Oliver pulls Cassie aside from
the others and shows her a gun.
He explains how she should use it and when.
Oliver tells her that she has to keep it on
her constantly and hide it from others.
Cassie takes it, saying that she thought they
were safe there, but Oliver tells her that
nothing is safe anymore.
Sometime later, everyone hears a strange racket
and sees a cloud of dust approaching the camp.
Suddenly, army tanks drive out of the cloud
and park in the center of the place, along
with school busses.
Colonel Vosch announces that he and his men
are from an army base and are there to help
them.
The army officers divide the adults from the
children.
The adults go to the mess hall for a briefing
and the children get on the buses.
Oliver is given the same information as he
and his kids move together toward the bus.
Vosch interrupts his argument with an officer
and tells them the reasons behind the separation.
He explains that the camp is in danger and
since they only have limited transportation,
the army has decided to prioritize getting
the kids back to safety.
Oliver decides to listen to the Colonel and
makes Cassie and Sam get on board.
He tells her to take care of her brother and
assures them that he'll arrive at the base
soon as well.
Once the kids are inside, Sam realizes he's
forgotten his teddy bear and since Cassie
can't persuade him to leave without it, she
goes to get it, making him stay on the bus.
Cassie enters the sleeping quarters, but as
soon as she finds the bear, she hears the
busses leave.
She runs toward them, though never manages
to reach the moving bus.
Meanwhile, Vosch informs the adults that the
army believes that the 4th wave has begun.
The aliens have come down from their ships
and are moving among people, possessing the
ability to inhabit human hosts and control
their actions.
The people from the camp become rattled and
Vosch tells them that even though they can
detect the aliens in children, they still
can't detect them in adults.
Everyone asks about their children, but the
colonel tells them that they'll be held in
a different facility than them because there
is no way to differentiate humans from aliens.
Cassie appears outside of the mess hall, but
Oliver signals her not to come inside and
to hide.
Suddenly, a man antagonizes the army men,
asking to be let out and everyone begins shooting.
Cassie runs into the woods.
A bit later, the soldiers leave the mess hall
without any civilians.
Cassie comes back and picks up Sam's teddy
bear.
She walks inside the mess and finds Oliver
dead among the others.
Before she leaves, Cassie grabs a riffle and
runs into the woods again.
Later, the children arrive at the base.
As they walk out of the buses, they are given
numbers and told to wait.
The first number called is Ben's.
He's taken inside the facility.
An army doctor is examining him as Sergeant
Reznik questions him.
He tells her that his family died in the previous
waves.
Reznik tells him that he's lucky because he
can avenge their deaths.
Like the rest of the kids, he will help in
the fight against the aliens.
She injects a tracker into his neck.
Ben asks how they can fight the aliens if
they don't know what they are.
Reznik brings him to another room to demonstrate
how they're able to detect them.
She shows him a boy attached to wires and
then gives him a special visor to see the
alien.
It is a parasite that infects humans and controls
them.
No extraction method works so the only way
to kill the parasite is to kill the host.
She hands him a switch to kill the boy.
Ben falters but eventually kills him.
Reznik welcomes him to the fight.
Simultaneously, Cassie is surviving by herself.
She hides in the woods and thinks that she
can't trust anyone.
Her main objective is to get to the base and
find her little brother.
After a long journey, she runs out of water
when she sees the store where we saw her first.
That night, Cassie falls asleep with her brother's
bear.
The next day, she reaches a highway filled
with abandoned cars.
She finds dead bodies scattered between the
vehicles and realizes they have been killed
recently.
Cassie sees an alien drone and immediately
gets shot in the thigh.
She hides under a truck for a moment, but
remembers her brother and decides to shoot
her way out of the situation.
Unfortunately, she passes out.
Meanwhile, Vosch prepares the children for
the upcoming battle with the aliens.
He tells them that they are planning a final
attack, a 5th wave.
If the aliens succeed in that wave, humanity
will be wiped out.
The children are thought how to be soldiers,
how to fight, defend and kill, with Vosh constantly
in their ear proclaiming them as the final
hope for humanity.
Vosch asks them if they can do what he asks
them to do and all of them, apart from Ben
and Sam, confirm that they can.
Cassie wakes up in a bed, with her wound dressed
and attached to an IV.
Suddenly, someone walks up the stairs and
as he enters, she pretends to be asleep.
The next day, Cassie takes out the needle
from the IV, gets to her backpack to find
her gun, but falls over because her wound
is still fresh.
She hears the man coming and gets back into
bed.
When the man walks in, he tells her that he
knows she's awake.
He introduces himself as Evan.
Cassie asks where she is, and Evan tells her
how he found her and brought her there.
She asks for her gun, but he says that he
didn't see one where he found her.
Suddenly, Evan realizes that Cassie might
have torn her stitches, and when he confirms
his suspicion, he picks her up and takes her
to the bathroom to fix her up again.
As he's sanitizing her wound, Evan tells her
that she's been there for a week.
Then Cassie asks how far they are from the
base and he tells her.
Later, he asks her why she asked about the
base and Cassie tells him about Sam.
Evan tells her that he wanted to help her
because he couldn't save his family and he
needed to feel more human.
At the base, the kids are playing poker, already
settled into their new roles.
They talk about the new recruit joining their
squad when Reznik brings her in and introduces
her as Ringer.
She shows her to her bunk.
As soon as Ringer puts her stuff down she
goes over to Ben and asks if he's the leader
of the squad.
The girl wants to assert her dominance on
him and everyone else, so she antagonizes
them by belittling them as a squad and threatening
them.
Ringer asks Ben if he plays chess when one
of the other kids tells her that they don't
but they can play strip poker.
She punches him in the throat and says that
she won't allow for any demeaning and sexist
remarks.
Teacup likes her attitude.
Simultaneously, Cassie is planning her route
to the base, still staying with Evan.
While he's in the yard, she goes to his room
and finds a secret compartment.
Cassie finds her gun hidden there.
She grabs it, packs in a hurry, and limps
out of the house.
Cassie sets off a booby trap and Evan catches
her, disarms her, and pulls her down, telling
her to be quiet.
An alien vessel flies over them and a hunter
looks for them in the woods.
When they get back to the house, Evan tells
her that he didn’t' tell her about the gun
because he was afraid she was an alien.
Cassie's stumped since he's right to be suspicious
too.
Evan tells her that the hunter is an alien
and he tracks people down along with the alien
drones.
They talk about her going to the base to get
her brother, but Evan says that he might be
dead already.
Cassie doesn't agree and says that she'll
go get him.
Evan follows her into her room and tells her
that he'll come with her.
He says that he'll get her there, even though
he can't promise what they'll find at the
base.
In the meantime, Ben gets closer to Ringer.
She tells him that unlike him, she had to
take care of herself even before the aliens
came so she was ready for the end of the world.
Ringer was doing fine before they dragged
her into the school bus.
Ben corrects her, saying they were rescued.
She says that they were drafted.
The two of them are sparring partners and
Ben tells her that if he can take her down,
she'll teach him and the rest of the squad
how to shoot.
She agrees and takes him down easily.
Unfortunately, she gets a little cocky, so
he tackles her down second.
Cassie and Evan are on their way to the base.
She asks him to teach her how to disarm someone
the way he disarmed her.
Evan patronizes her and she calls him out,
telling him that she isn't trying to be tough,
but that she promised her brother that she
would save him.
Cassie gets her point across so Evan decides
to show her how to do it.
First, he demonstrates on her, then he lets
her try a few times and also teaches her how
to subdue her attacker.
She thanks him and they continue their journey
to the base.
There, Ringer is teaching her squad how to
shoot.
She gives them a few tips and tells them to
try again.
Reznik joins them and tells Ben that the Colonel
wants to see him.
The boy follows her to a war room.
Vosch calls him over and informs him of several
simultaneous attacks on different cities.
The 5th wave of the invasion has begun.
He shows him an improved and mobile version
of the visor they used in medical before with
which they can see the aliens on the battlefront.
Vosch tells him that they need to test the
visors on the field and he'll send Ben's squad
as one of four to do that the next day.
He tells him to bring his squad back in one
piece.
In the woods, Cassie wakes up in the tent
alone.
She looks for Evan and finds him bathing in
the river.
He notices her watching him and she runs away.
When Evan gets back to their camp and finds
Cassie looking through her photos.
He asks her about her best friend and recognizes
Ben in a photo from his description in her
journal.
Cassie is embarrassed that he's read it.
Evan then sees a photo of Sam and tells her
that he can't wait to meet him.
They pack up and leave the campsite, then
follow the train tracks, until night falls
and they find shelter.
The same night, Ben and Sam can't sleep and
they talk.
The boy begins to sing the way Cassie sang
to him before everything happened.
Ben sings with him, annoying the rest of the
squad, except Ringer.
Meanwhile, Evan helps Cassie redress her wound.
She kisses him and thanks him.
Early that morning, the squad is getting into
a helicopter to get to the testing site.
Ringer asks Ben where Sam is and he tells
her that he has food poisoning, but he actually
restrained the little boy in the bathroom
so he stays safely in the base.
He's left his locket with Sam as well.
The squad arrives at the location and an officer
asks Ben what their mission is.
He says that they are to infiltrate the enemy's
nest and terminate them.
She reminds them that the visors light up
green for aliens and that once they're done
they should signal for extraction.
The helicopter drops them off and leaves as
they enter enemy territory.
Ben leads his squad of kids forward when one
of them sees two aliens straight ahead.
Before the squad can engage, they start shooting
at them.
Finding themselves in a tight situation, they
hide in an alley and Ben tells them to run
and take shelter in a bus.
He and Ringer are the last ones in so Ben
closes the doors.
They receive more enemy fire and one of them
gets shot.
Ringer realizes that they can't stay there
and acts as a distraction for the enemy until
the rest can get to another ally.
Ben tells the others to get ready to run on
his call.
Ringer yells for them to run and as they do,
the bus she rigged explodes behind them.
The squad gets into an abandoned mall and
when they clear it, they settle down.
Ringer joins them and immediately voices her
suspicion that something isn't right with
the aliens.
She wonders how can they make earthquakes
and yet be afraid of an army of children.
Ringer decides to escape the army, so she
takes out her tracker.
The moment she does, the rest read her as
an alien on their visors and freak out.
They don't know what to do until Ben realizes
what is happening.
He takes out his tracker and the others see
him as an alien too.
Ben says that he's not an alien and neither
are the people that were shooting at them
earlier.
Reznik and Vosch lied to them.
He says that green actually means human and
that the visors and the trackers were fake.
The real test was on them, to see how they
would react to the situation.
When the others question his logic, he explains
that the army is actually the aliens, manipulating
kids to do their dirty work and pick off the
rest of the survivors.
Ben tells them that they're not fighting the
5th wave, but that they are the 5th wave.
Teacup asks what they should do and he tells
all of them to take out their trackers.
Ben will be the only one to go back to the
base to save Sam.
He tells Ringer to shoot him so it looks real.
Simultaneously, hunters find Evan and Cassie.
Evan walks out of the truck and one of them
tells him that he's out of his drone sector
then shoots at him.
Cassie wakes up to find Eva struggling with
the two men and he tells her to run.
Before she does, Cassie takes out the gun
and is looking for ammo when she sees something
strange, then Evan falling next to the truck.
One of the men is going after her and she
manages to escape briefly until he grabs her
outside of the truck.
Cassie fires the gun, but Evan comes to her
rescue.
He struggles with the man with incredible
force and kills him in the end.
Cassie figures out something is off, so she
threatens him with her gun.
Evan tells her that he's both human and alien
- a sleeper agent created long before the
invasion started.
When the ship arrived in orbit, the alien
part of him woke up.
Cassie asks him if killed his family, but
Evan says it was the disease.
He tells her that, unlike his kind who don't
believe in love, when he saw her he fell in
love with her and regained his human side.
Ben had been tracking Cassie before and when
another hunter shot her, he killed him to
save her.
He is now a firm believer in love because
of her.
Cassie prepares to shoot him when he tells
her the truth about the army.
She walks off and Evan tells her that she
shouldn't be armed when she gets there because
they'll kill her.
Cassie tells him that if he follows her, she'll
kill him.
Meanwhile, Ben gets to a helicopter and back
to the base.
Later, she fake falls in front of a school
bus and they take her in.
Her number gets called and she gets the same
treatment in the base from Reznik.
As she shows Cassie the alien, she hits Reznik
over the head.
They struggle for a while, but Cassie kills
her, then removes the tracker.
She takes her clothes and goes through the
base looking for her brother.
Ben is at a briefing with Colonel Vosch, but
he knows what the boy is up to.
He asks him what he knows and Ben says that
he knows what they are, then realizes that
they will kill him.
Vosch says that humans did nothing to deserve
what happened to them other than occupying
a space they needed, then faces him with another
truth about humans.
Namely, that we've been doing the same things
to others for centuries.
Suddenly, an officer comes in and tells them
that Reznik has been killed, as well as three
guards at the west gate.
An explosion is heard from inside the base.
Vosch orders the child army to be deployed
and for his officers to find out who's attacking
them.
Ben fights off and kills the soldier detaining
him and takes off his tracker.
Simultaneously, Cassie is running through
the hallways as another explosion hits.
Vosch orders drones to be deployed on the
site so they can see who's attacking them.
Cassie runs into Ben and disarms him instantly.
They recognize each other and she tells him
that she's looking for Sam.
Ben tells her that the army is the aliens
and that they are deploying her brother into
battle.
He says that they need to get to him fast
or she won't see him again.
Cassie trusts him and they go to find him
together.
Two soldiers stop them when Evan shows up
and incapacitates them.
Evan tells them that he planted the bombs
and once the last of the planes with the kids'
leaves, he'll take the base down for good.
He's sorry that he lied to Cassie and says
that he chose his human side because of her.
Ben and Cassie run to find Sam before Evan
blows the base up.
They get to the transport lines only to find
that all of the children are there.
Both of them move between the lines to locate
Sam when Cassie finally sees him and gets
to him.
Ben shows them to an escape door and once
they reunite Cassie gives him his teddy bear.
Ben takes his tracker out and they run out.
Simultaneously, Vosch is evacuating the base.
He sees Ben and the others running, gets in
the helicopter, and goes after them, but he
doesn't manage to kill them before the base
explodes.
Suddenly, Ringer and the rest of Ben's squad
appear in an army truck and save them.
Cassie watches the base explode and thinks
about Evan.
Later, the squad has set up someplace, resting
and eating.
Ben talks to Cassie and asks her what they
should do.
She says that they need to save the other
kids, but she still doesn't know how to.
Ben tells her that they should worry about
that the next day.
They join the others of the squad and hope
for a better tomorrow.